.TH LICHUAN_A4 1 2024-01-21 "Lichuan A4 servo driver"
.SH NAME
lichuan_a4 \- LinuxCNC HAL userspace component for Lichuan A4 servo driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lichuan_a4
.RB [ -h|--help ]
.RB [ -d|--device\ \fIpath\fR ]
.RB [ -n|--name\ \fIname[,...]\fR ]
.RB [ -r|--rate\ \fIrate\fR ]
.RB [ -v|--verbose ]
.RB [ -t|--target\ \fItarget[,...]\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This component connects the Lichuan A4 servo driver via serial (RS-485)
connection to LinuxCNC and provides a HAL interface.
.PP
This driver is implemented in userspace, as such it is not suitable for
controlling the servo motor with the precision and speed that is expected. This
driver is meant to read status, error codes and to read and write digital inputs
and outputs.
.PP
To ensure a successful connection, you need to adjust the parameters in the
driver to match the configuration in the software. The communication address and
baud rate are the sole configurable parameters. The data bits, stop bit, and
parity settings remain unalterable and are set at 8E1, denoting 8 data bits, 1
stop bit, and even parity.
.PP
The parameters that has to be configured on Lichuan A4 servo driver is:
.TP
.BI PA_000\ \=\ 1
Set register to 1, which is the default Modbus \fItarget\fR.
.PP
.TP
.BI PA_00D\ \=\ 3
Set register to 3, which is the default \fIrate\fR for Lichuan A4 driver.
.PP
Consult the Lichuan A4 instruction manual for details on configuring the device
and alternative values for the above registers.
.SH OPTIONS
Options set on the command line will overwrite the default settings.
.TP
.BI -h\ --help
Show options and exit.
.PP
.TP
.BI -d\ --device " path"
(default /dev/ttyUSB0) Set the name of the serial device node to use.
.PP
.TP
.BI -n\ --name " name[,...]"
(default lichuan_a4) Set the name of the HAL module. The HAL component name will
be set to \fIname\fR and all pin and parameter names will begin with
\fIname\fR. If you connect multiple drives, they should have unique names, it
is required that \fItarget\fR has the same number of elements.
.PP
.TP
.BI -r\ --rate " rate"
(default 19200) Set baud rate to \fIrate\fR. It is an error if the baud rate is
not one of the following: 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200. This
must match the setting in register \fBPA_00D\fR of the Lichuan A4 driver. If you have
connected multiple drives, they must all have the same baud rate.
.PP
.TP
.BI -v\ --verbose
Turn on verbose messages. Note that if there are serial errors, this may
become annoying. Verbose mode will cause all serial communication messages
to be printed in hex on the terminal.
.PP
.TP
.BI -t\ --target " target[,...]"
(default 1) Set Modbus target number. This must match the address you set on the
Lichuan A4 driver in register \fBPA_000\fR. If you connect multiple drives, they must
have unique numbers, it is required that \fIname\fR has the same number of
elements.
.SH PINS
Where \fIname\fR is set with option \fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR or default value.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBcommanded-speed\fR (float, out)
commanded speed [RPM]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBfeedback-speed\fR (float, out)
feedback speed [RPM]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdeviation-speed\fR (float, out)
deviation between command and feedback speed [RPM]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBcommanded-torque\fR (float, out)
commanded torque [0.1%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBfeedback-torque\fR (float, out)
feedback torque [0.1%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdeviation-torque\fR (float, out)
deviation between command and feedback torque [0.1%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdc-bus-volt\fR (float, out)
DC bus voltage [V]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBtorque-load\fR (float, out)
torque load ratio [%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBres-braking\fR (float, out)
resistance braking rate [%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBtorque-overload\fR (float, out)
torque overload ratio [%]
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBerror-code\fR (s32, out)
servo driver error code
.PP
Digital IO is configurable from the Lichuan A4 servo driver \fBnot\fR from this
HAL module, we assume default settings.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in0\fR (bit, out)
servo enabling
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in1\fR (bit, out)
clear alarm
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in2\fR (bit, out)
clockwise stroke limit
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in3\fR (bit, out)
anticlockwise stroke limit
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in4\fR (bit, out)
clear deviation counter to 0
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in5\fR (bit, out)
command pulse prohibition
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in6\fR (bit, out)
torque limit switchover
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-in7\fR (bit, out)
start position of "back to zero"
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out0\fR (bit, out)
servo ready
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out1\fR (bit, out)
servo alarm
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out2\fR (bit, out)
location arrival
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out3\fR (bit, out)
brake release
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out4\fR (bit, out)
zero speed detection
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBdigital-out5\fR (bit, out)
torque limiting
.SH PARAMETERS
Where \fIname\fR is set with option \fB-n\fR, \fB--name\fR or default value.
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBmodbus-polling\fR (float,\ rw)
If multiple devices are connected, the first device is used to set the polling
frequency.
.IP
Modbus polling frequency [s]. Default is 1.0s.
.PP
.TP
\fIname\fR.\fBmodbus-errors\fR (u32,\ ro)
Modbus error count
